README.md, before:

Library for work and experiment with polynomials for homomorphic encryption. 

Implementation of polynomial operations is in the file `polymath.h` and it is separated from class `Polynomial` from `polynomial.h`. 
Class `Polynomial` is created for convenient work with polynomials and to hide the details of operations. 
This way is allowing to separate and analyze algorithms separately. All necessary mathematical operations are collected in `ntmath.h`.

NTT operations are mirrored in `NTT` class for convenience. Helper class `NTTManager` ensures that only a single copy of `NTT` class for particular pair of parameters `N` and `m` exist.

Check NTT and multiplication performance using example `polymath_performance.cpp`.

# How to compile and run

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make 
./bin/main
```

# How to compile and run on Windows

Download and install MSYS2 (https://www.msys2.org/) using default settings. Start the MSYS2 MINGW 64-bit shell and execute the following command
```
pacman -Syu
```
Run the following commands to install all pre-requisites
```
pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc
pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-cmake
pacman -S make
pacman -S git
```
Clone the repo. Create a directory where the binaries will be built. The typical choice is a subfolder build. In this case, the commands are:
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -G"Unix Makefiles"
```
Build the program using command and run example
```
make
./bin/main.exe
```
# How to compile and run on MacOS

Install the Mac terminal command line functions if needed (type git at the command line to trigger the install). Then install home-brew if not already present:
```
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"
```
Install pre-requisites cmake library using Homebrew:
```
brew install cmake
```
Compile and run using dollowing commands (from the project directory)
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make 
./bin/main
```

Commit message:

USE_SERIAL CMake option added

README.md, after:

Library for work and experiment with polynomials for homomorphic encryption. 

Implementation of polynomial operations is in the file `polymath.h` and it is separated from class `Polynomial` from `polynomial.h`. 
Class `Polynomial` is created for convenient work with polynomials and to hide the details of operations. 
This way is allowing to separate and analyze algorithms separately. All necessary mathematical operations are collected in `ntmath.h`.

NTT operations are mirrored in `NTT` class for convenience. Helper class `NTTManager` ensures that only a single copy of `NTT` class for particular pair of parameters `N` and `m` exist.

Check NTT and multiplication performance using example `polymath_performance.cpp`.

# How to compile and run

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make 
./bin/main
```

## How to compile and run on Windows

Download and install MSYS2 (https://www.msys2.org/) using default settings. Start the MSYS2 MINGW 64-bit shell and execute the following command
```
pacman -Syu
```
Run the following commands to install all pre-requisites
```
pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-gcc
pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-cmake
pacman -S make
pacman -S git
```
Clone the repo. Create a directory where the binaries will be built. The typical choice is a subfolder build. In this case, the commands are:
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -G"Unix Makefiles"
```
Build the program using command and run example
```
make
./bin/main.exe
```
## How to compile and run on MacOS

Install the Mac terminal command line functions if needed (type git at the command line to trigger the install). Then install home-brew if not already present:
```
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"
```
Install pre-requisites cmake library using Homebrew:
```
brew install cmake
```
Compile and run using dollowing commands (from the project directory)
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make 
./bin/main
```

# CMake Options

To use non-default CMake options you should initialize project using the following command
```
cmake .. -DCMAKE_OPTION=VALUE
```
Here `CMAKE_OPTION` is one of the options from the list below and `VALUE` is determined in the values column.
For example, to enable saving and loading of objects to file, use `-D` with option `USE_SERIAL` and set value `ON`: 
`cmake .. -DUSE_SERIAL=ON`. 

| option | values | desription |   
|--------|-------|------------|
|USE_SERIAL| ON/**OFF** | Allows to download and use [cereal library](https://uscilab.github.io/cereal/) for serialization, i.e. enable simple saving and loading to/from files. This option may require installation of boost and doxigen, therefore it turned OFF by default |
